= crossref

* http://github.com/ottbot/crossref/tree

== DESCRIPTION:

Crossref - A ruby way to work with DOI metadata from crossref.org

You can get info on many academic articles via DOI. 
This gem gets XML from crossref openurl and gives you a nice ruby object to work with.

More information at:
http://crossref.org
http://crossref.org/openurl

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Very early in development, made for a specific application. Hopefully will progress to a more useful library.

== SYNOPSIS:

   >> require 'crossref'
   => true

Create an instance with your crossref pid.

   >> CR = Crossref::Metadata.new(:pid => "you@example.com")
   => #<Crossref::Metadata:0x1121848 @base_url="http://crossref.org/openurl/?noredirect=true&format=unixref&pid=you@example.com", @pid="you@example.com", @doi=nil>

Get a paper with a DOI

  >> paper = CR.doi('10.1021/ie50324a027')
  => #<Crossref::Metadata:0x111cd48 @xml=<?xml version="1.0"?>...
, @url="http://crossref.org/openurl/?noredirect=true&format=unixref&pid=you@example.com&id=doi:10.1021/ie50324a027", @base_url="http://crossref.org/openurl/?noredirect=true&format=unixref&pid=you@example.com", @pid="you@example.com", @doi="10.1021/ie50324a027">

Get your data:

  >> paper.title
  => "Heat Transfer and Pressure Drop of Liquids in Tubes"

  >> paper.journal
  => {:volume=>"28", :issue=>"12", :first_page=>"1429", :last_page=>"1435", :title=>"Ind. Eng. Chem.", :issn=>"0019-7866"}

  >> paper.published
  => {:month=><month>12</month><month>12</month>, :year=><year>1936</year><year>1936</year>}

  >> paper.authors
  => [{:given_name=>"E. N.", :surname=>"Sieder"}, {:given_name=>"G. E.", :surname=>"Tate"}]

== REQUIREMENTS:

nokogiri

== INSTALL:
  rake package
  sudo gem install pkg/crossref-0.0.1.gem

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Robert Crim

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
